CytoSnake Sphinx Documentation (#20)
WayScience/CytoSnake: docs/_build/html/_sources/tutorial.rst.txt

> ####################

Reviewer: the file extension `.rst.txt` is throwing me off. I'm used to seeing it just `.rst`. Any reason to append the `.txt` suffix?

Author: I honestly do not know. That's how the auto generated sphinx plugin conducted it. This will no longer be an issue once I switch to MD files

 CytoSnake Tutorial
####################

*******
 About
*******

> This tutorial assumes that you have follows the installation steps and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial assumes that you have followed the installation steps and
```

you are ready to start taking off with CytoSnake!

Cytosnake is a command line interface (CLI) tool that contains a

> multitude of workflows for analyzing morphological features obtained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multitude of workflows for processing morphological features obtained
```

from microscopy images of cells.

**********
 Concepts
**********

.. image:: images/Cytopipe-cli_0.drawio.png

Modes
=====

Modes provide options on how the user can change the functionality of
CytoSnake. For example, if you would like to initialize your files for a
specific workflow, you can simply type:

> using the `init` mode

Reviewer: Maybe this line is better as a comment in the code block?

.. code::

   cytosnake init <DATAFILES> <METADATA> <DATATYPE>

> -  `DATAFILE` will refer to the raw data that you are going to analyze,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `DATAFILES` will refer to the raw data that you are going to analyze,
```

To match the command

Reviewer: I think it would really help to have a concrete example of these placeholders (in addition to having the placeholders, they are helpful too!)

Reviewer: Ah! I see that you have this below. You can reference this (e.g. "See below for a full working example" or something like this)

-  `METADATA` refers to the associated metadata data directory that was
   generated along with the dataset

> -  `DATATYPE` flag tells cytosnake weather these morphology feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `DATATYPE` flag tells cytosnake the origin of these morphology feature
```

>    datasets were obtained from CellProfiler or DeepProfiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   datasets (currently either CellProfiler or DeepProfiler)
```

> The init mode setups the provided input files into its appropriate file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The init mode initializes the provided input files into the appropriate file
```

> structure that accommodates all the workflows available in Cat Snake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structure that accommodates all the workflows available in CytoSnake
```

Funny typo 😹 

Also, are you camelcasing CytoSnake, or using all lowercase? I've seen both. Please be consistent.

Author: Yikes hahaha. 

Camel casing

Currently, cytosnake supports three different types of modes, which are:

>    #. inti: setups up input files for workflows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. init: setups up input files for workflows
```

   #. run: execute a specific
   #. help: executes CytoSnake's CLI help documentation.

Configurations
==============

> CytoSnake has configurational directory that allows users to change the
> configurations for their specified workflows.
> 
> The configuration files are written in `.yaml` files, which contains all
> the functions and its parameters used within the workflow. The
> workflow's documentation provides information about the configuration
> files involved within the workflow.
> 
> Users can easily find and change parameter values by accessing those
> configurational files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CytoSnake has a config directory which stores config files.
Users can modify these configs for their custom workflows.

The config files are written in `.yaml` , and they contain all functions and  parameters used in data processing workflows.
 Each file provides documentation about the configuration
files involved within the workflow.

Users can easily find and change parameter values by modifying config files.
```

I made a couple edits for clarity. Please confirm their accuracy!ss

Author: Yes this is accurate, thank you.

.. _plate_data_2: https://nih.figshare.com/ndownloader/files/18031619

In this usage tutorial, we will be using data cell health datasets.

You can download these datasets (quite large files):

-  plate_data_1_: (10GB download)
-  plate_data_2_: (11GB download)
-  metadata_folder_: Contains all associated perturbations per well
-  barcode_: Maps plate id with plate names

You can also use your dataset but some of the tasks that are being done
here are specific to the files downloaded.

Setting up files
================

The first step it to prepare your files for analysis, this is simply
executed by typing:

.. code::

   cytosnake init -d SQ00014613.sqlite SQ00014613.sqlite -d metadata -b barcode_platemap.csv

In instances where you may have a lot of data, CytoSnake supports
wildcard variables.

.. code::

   cytosnake init -d *.sqlite -d metadata -b barcode_platemap.csv

If there is an instances were you are going to use morphological
datasets obtained from DeepProfiler, then you must explicitly state the
datatype flag when using `init`:

.. code::

   cytosnake init -d *.sqlite -d metadata -b barcode_platemap.csv --datatype deep_profiler

> Once entering the command, your out put should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once entering the command, your output should look like this:
```

.. code::

   INFO: Formatting input files
   INFO: Formatting complete!

Running Workflow
================

In your current working directory, a new folder ./data should appear in
your current directory. Inside the directory, it should contain symbolic
links of your data files that you have provided in the init mode. This
directory serves as centralized location of data for the workflows to
have access too. Now that you have your data folder, you can simply
select which workflow to execute by using the run mode. Since the
cell-health dataset contains data extracted from CellProfiler, when we

> will used the cp_process workflow.

Reviewer: What directory should you be in?

.. code::

   cytosnake run cp_process

> If your data contains features that were extracted by using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your data contains features that were extracted by
```

DeepProfiler, then the dp_process workflow must be executed

.. code::

   cytosnake run dp_process

> These workflows contain their own environments, therefore there is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These workflows contain their own environments, therefore there is no
```

need to download the dependencies that our workflows require. When the
the job is done, the last message you should see is:

.. code::

   [Mon Sep 19 14:29:07 2022]
   Finished job 0.
   2 of 2 steps (100%) done

This indicates that all tasks within the workflow is complete.

Accessing data
==============

> In your directory, a `results` folder will be produced which contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your directory, cytosnake produces a `results` folder, which contains
```

> all the outputs generated from the workflow. To visualize those outputs,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all the outputs generated from the workflow. To list those outputs,
```

"visualize" makes me think that you're going to plot the results somehow

simply type:

.. code::

   cd results/preprocessing/ && ls

This will take you to the directory where the generated outputs are and
lists all the files.

.. code::

>    consensus.tsv.gz                  SQ00014614_aggregate.csv.gz

Reviewer: Looks like this got cut off

Author: That's very weird.... It doesn't appear like that on my end!

   SQ00014613_aggregate.csv.gz       SQ00014614_augmented.csv.gz
   SQ00014613_augmented.csv.gz       SQ00014614_cell_counts.tsv
   SQ00014613_cell_counts.tsv        SQ00014614_feature_select.csv.gz
   SQ00014613_feature_select.csv.gz  SQ00014614_normalized.csv.gz
   SQ00014613_normalized.csv.gz

These files contain different types of information that is denoted by
their suffix:

-  `_cell_counts.tsv`: Number of cells in the dataset

-  `_aggregate`: Refers to the aggregated dataset. Single cell dataset

>    (your inputs) are aggregated into the “well” level.

Reviewer: Doesn't this depend on your config file?

Author: As of write now, I have not created configuration file that handles the extension names, they are currently hard coded. But in the future, that is the plan

-  `_augmented`: A datasets contains metadata information in a per well
   level. For example, types of metadata can be: well position,
   treatments, controls, etc

> -  `_feature_select`: contains the selected morphological features that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `_feature_select`: contains the profiles with only selected morphological features
```

   will be used to generate consensus profiles

-  `_consensus`: is the consensus profile contains unique morphological
   signatures associated with a specific external treatment (drug,

>    perturbations, controls (pos/neg), etc)

Reviewer: missing `_normalized`
